Our sacred service is our sacrifice,
our gift to Jehovah.
But here’s a key point:
Before Jehovah looks at our gift,
he looks at us.
He must accept us first
if he’s to accept our gift.
So here’s the key question, then:
What does Jehovah look for in us?
We’re going to use three Bible examples
to explore that question.
Let’s begin in the Most Holy
of the tabernacle
on the Day of Atonement.
The high priest’s mission
is to offer a sin offering
for himself and for the nation.
But before he can do that, Jehovah tells him
to do something very specific,
as depicted here.
It’s recorded at Leviticus chapter 16,
verses 12 and 13.
So please turn with me to that
—Leviticus chapter 16—
the first time he enters
the Most Holy on that day.
“He will then take the fire holder
“full of burning coals
from the altar before Jehovah
“and two handfuls of fine perfumed incense,
“and he will bring them inside the curtain.
“He will also put the incense
on the fire before Jehovah,
“and the cloud of the incense will envelop
the Ark cover, which is on the Testimony,
so that he may not die.”
Clearly, from that last phrase,
Jehovah needed to approve
of the high priest and what he did
if he was to accept the sin offering.
He had to bring in incense.
In the Bible,
incense is associated with prayer.
So clearly, the high priest had to come in
with a humble, prayerful attitude.
Imagine, though, if he decided to bring
his own incense recipe
because he preferred that smell.
Was Jehovah likely to accept that?
Or what if he followed
the procedure perfectly
but yesterday he was leading the nation
in worship to Molech?
Would Jehovah approve
of what he did on this day?
So, what qualities was Jehovah looking for
in the high priest?
A humble, prayerful attitude;
strict obedience to direction;
moral and spiritual integrity.
Everything on that day,
the high priest and his sin offering,
pictured Jesus Christ.
So, what can we learn from Jesus
while he was on earth?
There’s a beautiful description
at Hebrews 5:7, 8.
So let’s read that verse together,
and pick out what this tells us about Jesus.
Hebrews 5:7, 8:
“During his life on earth, Christ offered up
“supplications and also petitions,
“with strong outcries and tears,
“to the One who was able to save him
out of death,
“and he was favorably heard
for his godly fear.
“Although he was a son, he learned obedience
from the things he suffered.”
Supplications and petitions—
Although he was the perfect son of God,
Jesus humbly recognized
his total dependence on his Father.
From verse 8, it’s easy
to pick up that key quality.
He was perfectly obedient
in carrying out Jehovah’s will for him.
And what about this phrase
at the end of verse 7:
“He was favorably heard for his godly fear”?
Yes, Jesus’ fervent desire
to please Jehovah in everything
—that was the source
of his perfect integrity.
The question, though, is why?
What moved Jesus to do these things?
Well, in his own words, John 14:31:
“In order for the world to know
that I love the Father.”
What did Jehovah see in Jesus?
He saw remarkable humility;
total dependence on his Father;
perfect obedience;
flawless integrity;
and the purest of motives
—love for his Father.
It’s no wonder that Jehovah looked down
and said:
“This is my Son, the beloved,
whom I have approved.”
Jehovah approved of Jesus,
and he approved of the ransom sacrifice.
So now it’s down to us.
What is Jehovah looking for in you and me?
Well, as with Jesus, he’s looking
for the right qualities and the right motive
—so qualities and motive.
That’s familiar to us,
even in human relationships.
We’ve all seen the picture
of a sheepish husband who comes home
carrying a big bouquet of flowers.
Well, he’s done something that’s going
to make his wife angry when she finds out,
and he wants to appease her
to make her less angry.
Is she going to be happy with that?
She may accept the flowers,
but she does not want to be appeased.
What she wants is a loyal husband
to give her a gift because he loves her
—qualities and motive.
With this in mind,
let’s learn one further lesson
from the example of King David.
Jehovah had told David
that he would not be the one
that would build the temple,
and David obeyed Jehovah’s direction.
But he loved pure worship.
He wanted to do something.
So David carefully studied the temple plan
that Jehovah gave him,
and then he brought Jehovah a gift,
and what a gift it was,
from his personal fortune
—gold, silver, and so many other things!
You know, just the gold and silver
from his personal fortune
was worth almost six billion dollars.
Now, when David was ready
to present that gift to Jehovah,
he said a special prayer.
And we’re going to look at it
in 1 Chronicles chapter 29.
Verses 10-17 is the prayer.
It’s worth its own study project.
But we’ll look at just a few key points.
Please look to see
what each of these reveals
about David as the giver of the gift.
So 1 Chronicles 29:14:
“Who am I and who are my people
“that we should be in a position
to make voluntary offerings like this?
“For everything is from you,
and we have given to you
what comes from your own hand.”
Wow!
Despite his rank, his seniority,
David humbly recognized
what a privilege it was
to be able to do anything for Jehovah.
Now glance down at verse 17.
What would make Jehovah approve of this gift?
“I well know, O my God,
that you examine the heart
“and that you take pleasure in integrity.
“In the uprightness of my heart,
I have voluntarily offered all these things.”
That’s why Jehovah would approve the gift.
Now, bear in mind,
David has just presented to Jehovah
billions of dollars worth of gifts.
And yet look at verse 13,
this is his motive:
“And now, O our God, we thank you
and praise your beautiful name.”
His gratitude moved David to give
everything that he possibly could to Jehovah.
So how are we like David
when we give gifts to Jehovah?
We humbly recognize what a privilege it is
to be able to do anything for Jehovah.
We keep strict obedience to direction.
We fight to maintain our integrity,
and it’s our love and our gratitude
that moves us to give Jehovah
everything that we can
—our very best.
When Jehovah sees these qualities
and these motives in us,
then he’s very pleased,
and he will be pleased to accept our gift,
whether we give him the fortune of David
or the widow’s mite.
So, what gifts will you bring
to Jehovah today?
May Jehovah smile when he sees you,
and may he approve
of your good qualities and your good motive,
and may he turn your gift
into a blessing for you and for many others.